What's up, my friend? You already know this is the Life in
English podcast. I am your host, Tony Kaizen, and today's
episode is for the introverts out there, the people who
struggle to express themselves and maintain conversations
with strangers in social situations. Now you might think of
your introverted personality as a weakness or a
disadvantage, but the reality is that you've got a
communication superpower and you don't even know it, my
friend. In my experience, introverts have a tendency to
watch and listen more than they speak when interacting with
strangers. This means that introverts have a tendency to
notice and perceive things that others cannot. And as an
introvert, you can use the observations you make as
conversation starters, jokes, arguments, reflections, all
kinds of stuff. You just need to understand the art of
communication and practice consistently. Now, personally,
I'm learning new things about communication skills every
day, and one of the things I love most is sharing the things
I've learned with you. I'm gonna help you become a better
communicator because communication is at the heart of every
single thing we do in life. So we're going to develop your
communication skills because you don't care about English,
right? What you really care about is what you can do with
English. You can get a better job, make more money, support
your family, travel the world, make new friends. All of that
is obtained through proper communication skills. English is
just a tool we use to communicate. If the entire world were
learning Spanish instead of English, then the name of this
podcast would be La Vida en Español, and I'd be saying the
same exact thing in Spanish. Develop your communication
skills. That's it.
But enough of the lecture. I told you that I got a
conversation tip for introverts and that simple tip is to
use your attentive listening skills to encourage other
people to talk about themselves and their experiences. I was
reading the book How to Win Friends and Influence People by
Dale Carnegie, and I came across a chapter titled An Easy
Way to Become a Good Conversationalist. Now, I'm going to
read two passages from this chapter and explain the
fundamental concepts that you can experiment with in your
next conversation. But before I do that, I want to make it
clear that I don't mean to say all introverts are great
listeners, because they certainly are not, and not all
extroverts are poor listeners. I'm just saying that most
introverts spend more time listening than talking, and the
opposite is true for extroverts. But this information can
and should be applied by introverts and extroverts alike. In
fact, if you're an extrovert and you wanna get closer to an
introvert, you should listen closely to this episode and try
this the next time you speak with him or her. As long as
you're genuine in your approach, you might be pleasantly
surprised by the results. But anyway, my friend, it's about
time to get this show on the motherfucking road. So I'm
going to read the first passage to you now. Passage number
one. "Some time ago, I attended a bridge party.
I don't play bridge. And there was a woman there who didn't
play bridge either. She had discovered that I had once been
Lowell Thomas' manager before he went on the radio, and that
I had traveled in Europe a great deal while helping him
prepare the illustrated travel talks he was then delivering.
So she said, 'Oh, Mr. Carnegie, I do want you to tell me
about the wonderful places you visited and the sights you've
seen.' As we sat down on the sofa, she remarked that she and
her husband had recently returned from a trip to Africa.
'Africa?,' I exclaimed. 'How interesting! I've always wanted
to see Africa, but I never got there, except for a 24-hour
stay in Algiers. Tell me, did you visit the big-game
country? Yes?
How fortunate! I envy you. Do tell me about Africa.' That
kept her talking for 45 minutes.
She never again asked me where I had been or what I had
seen. She didn't want to hear me talk about my travels. All
she wanted was an interested listener so she could expand
her ego and tell me about where she had been. Was she
unusual? No.
Many people are like that. For example, I met a
distinguished botanist at a dinner party given by a New York
book publisher. I had never talked with a botanist before,
and I found them fascinating. I literally sat on the edge of
my chair and listened while he spoke of exotic plants and
experiments and developing new forms of plant life and
indoor gardens, and even told me astonishing facts about the
humble potato. I had a small indoor garden of my own. He was
good enough to tell me how to solve some of my problems. As
I said, we were at a dinner party. There must have been a
dozen other guests, but I violated all the canons of
courtesy, ignored everyone else, and talked for hours to the
botanist. Midnight came.
I said goodnight to everyone and departed. The botanist then
turned to our host and paid me several flattering comments.
I was 'most stimulating'. I was this and I was that, and he
ended by saying I was a 'most interesting
conversationalist'. An interesting conversationalist?
Why? I had hardly said anything at all. I couldn't have said
anything if I had wanted to without changing the subject for
I didn't know any more about botany than I knew about the
anatomy of a penguin. But I had done this: I had listened
intently. I had listened because I was genuinely interested
and he felt it. Naturally, that pleased him. That kind of
listening is one of the highest compliments we can pay
anyone." "Few human beings," wrote Jack Woodford in
Strangers in Love, "few human beings are proof against the
implied flattery of rapt attention." I went even further
than giving him rapt attention. I was hearty in my
approbation and lavish in my praise. I told him that I had
been immensely entertained and instructed, and I had. I told
him I wished I had his knowledge, and I did. I told him that
I should love to wander the fields with him, and I have. I
told him I must see him again, and I did. And so I had him
thinking of me as a good conversationalist, when in reality
I had been merely a good listener and had encouraged him to
talk." Alright, my friend.
When I read this passage, I feel like I'm looking in the
mirror. I don't particularly like talking about myself with
people I don't know or trust, and listening is something
that comes naturally to me. And somewhere along the line, I
figured out that you don't have to have a bunch of
interesting things to say about yourself in order to have an
interesting conversation with someone else. You could just
use your natural curiosity to get the other person talking.
And this is a major unlock for introverts who tend to watch
and listen more than they speak. Trying to be social in a
room full of strangers can be very uncomfortable for
introverts who don't enjoy or even know how to make small
talk. But if you develop your communication skills and learn
how to interview people conversationally, you can talk to
just about anyone who's willing to talk to you. You can hear
things that other people don't hear simply because you're
listening attentively. And that means you can take the
conversations to places it never would have gone if it were
just two people talking over each other, fighting for the
spotlight, and filling moments of silence with senseless
chatter. When you encourage people to talk about themselves
and their experiences, and then you show them that you see
where they're coming from, they end up feeling understood.
And when people feel that you truly understand them, they
feel a deeper connection with you. This is why you hang out
with certain people or buy certain products from certain
brands and listen to certain songs repetitively. You feel
that you understand them and that they understand you,
right? Or at least I think that's the reason. But my point
is, that seeking to learn about and understand other people
will inevitably bring you closer to them, which creates a
deeper connection and a stronger affinity for you. But
here's the catch: the interest you show must be genuine.
People can smell fake interest from a mile away, bro. So if
you're thinking about using the tactic to manipulate
people's perceptions or feeling towards you, I'm telling you
now, it'll only backfire. So, let's get on to
passage number two. "One of the great listeners of modern
times was Sigmund Freud.
A man who met Freud described his manner of listening. 'It
struck me so forcibly that I shall never forget him. He had
qualities which I had never seen in any other man. Never had
I seen such concentrated attention. There was none of the
piercing soul-penetrating gaze business. His eyes were mild
and genial. His voice was low and kind. His gestures were
few. But the attention he gave me, his appreciation of what
I said, even when I said it badly, was extraordinary. You
have no idea what it meant to be listened to like that.' If
you want to know how to make people shun you and laugh at
you behind your back or even despise you, here's the recipe:
Never listen to anyone for long. Talk incessantly about
yourself. If you have an idea while the other person is
talking, don't wait for him or her to finish. Bust right in
and interrupt in the middle of a sentence. Do you know
people like that? I do, unfortunately.
And the astonishing part of it is that some of them are
prominent. Bores, that is all they are - bores intoxicated
with their own egos, drunk with the sense of their own
importance. People who talk only of themselves think only of
themselves. And those people who think only of themselves
are hopelessly uneducated. They are not educated, no matter
how instructed they may be. So if you aspire to be a good
conversationalist, be an attentive listener. To be
interesting, be interested.
Ask questions that other people will enjoy answering.
Encourage them to talk about themselves and their
accomplishments. Remember that the people you are talking to
are a hundred times more interested in themselves and their
wants and problems than they are in you and your problems. A
person's toothache means more to that person than a famine
in China which kills a million people. A boil on one's neck
interests one more than 40 earthquakes in Africa. Think
about that the next time you start a conversation." Alright,
my friend.
Personally, I don't think this passage needs much
summarizing, but I will reiterate the fact that attentive
listening skills are a superpower that should never be
underestimated. You might have been led to believe that
talking about yourself and trying to make yourself look good
was the way to make people like you. But I can tell you that
it's really the exact opposite. If you don't believe me,
just start paying more attention. Start listening to the
conversations happening around you. Pay attention to what's
actually being said. I think you'll realize that a lot of
people aren't listening to each other at all. They're just
on a marketing campaign trying to sell the world on the idea
that they're cool, interesting, powerful, respected,
beautiful, funny, different, or whatever bullshit. It's just
"me, me, me.
Me, me, me, me, me, me, me!" Right?
What on earth could be more boring than that? If you want to
have better conversations, be a good listener. Encourage
others to talk about themselves.